# Introduction to Immunization Forecasting

## The basic building blocks for this project can be found at the [CDC Website](https://www.cdc.gov/vaccines/programs/iis/cdsi.html). 
#### (Also, in case it's not obvious, most of this is taken directly from the CDC with my interpretation written on top of it. If I'm violating any copyrights or anything, please let me know, and I'll take it down immediately.)

## 1. I've reproduced some of those here. 
1. [All supporting information](https://github.com/Dokotela/FhirVCA/tree/master/documentation)
2. [Full Excel Sheets from CDC Background Information](https://github.com/Dokotela/FhirVCA/tree/master/documentation/cdc/Excel)
3. [Same documents in open format](https://github.com/Dokotela/FhirVCA/tree/master/documentation/cdc/CDC%20ODF)
4. [XML formatting for resources from CDC](https://github.com/Dokotela/FhirVCA/tree/master/documentation/cdc/XML)
5. [JSON background](https://github.com/Dokotela/FhirVCA/tree/master/documentation/cdc/JSON) - contains the same information as included in the CDC's XML files, but some formatting differences to allow me to write easier logic later.
6. [Test Cases](https://github.com/Dokotela/FhirVCA/tree/master/documentation/testCases) - I've converted the healthy test cases into FHIR Json to use for testing the rules engine. They are available for [R4](https://github.com/Dokotela/FhirVCA/tree/master/documentation/testCases/r4), [stu3](https://github.com/Dokotela/FhirVCA/tree/master/documentation/testCases/stu3), and [dstu2](https://github.com/Dokotela/FhirVCA/tree/master/documentation/testCases/dstu2). I also have the scripts there for converting the csv file into the Json (yes, all in Dart). Yesterday I realized I had misformatted some of the R4 ImmunizationRecommendations, so please let me know if you see any other issues.

## 2. Concepts
1. Target dose - this is a term that makes some intrinsic sense, and then has been used in confusing ways, at least I thought so. It is generally used to mean the next dose in a series that has not yet been satisfied.
2. The vast majority of the logic in vaccinations is at the level of the antigen, not with the vaccination itself
    * All vaccines that the patient has received are broken down to their antigen components
3. The basic gist of immunization logic runs like this:
    * Create list of antigens that the patient should work for immunity from
    * Multiple options exist for immunity, some through infection (e.g. varicella), others through completing a vaccine series
    * There are multiple series that are valid for inducing immunity, and may be appropriate given certain conditions, allergies, age, etc
    * Each dose that has already been received is compared against the doses in every series, to see if they match required ages, intervals, etc
    * The recommended next dose for each series is calculated
    * Each series is considered again, given factors such as how many valid doses it contains, how quickly it can be completed, or if it is the default series
    * Scores are applied to each series to determine the preferred series
    * This score is used to determine the best series to follow to complete immunizations for that particular antigen
    * The series are combined into Vaccine groups (MMR, DTAP, etc) to provide final recommendations for vaccines
    * Ideally, these would again be combined into single actual Vaccines, with CVX/MVX codes and names, although this logic has not been given in the booklet

## 3. Data Models
1. I've struggled over this for a while, trying to decide the best way to do it, both for efficiency, maintainability, and for understandability. I've certainly included more fields than was absolutely necessary. So if you're asking why I've included so many, it's because it was helping me to understand the vaccine logic as I worked through it.
2. I begin by instantiating all of the supporting vaccine data. This will include all antigen supporting data (which is per disease), and schedule supporting data (which includes live virus conflicts, series vaccine groups, series vaccine group to antigen map, cxv to antigen map, and observations). This is a singleton, since it shouldn't change during the course of evaluations.
3. Initially the patient was also a singleton, but I'd like to be able to run this in docker eventually, and thought it would be easier to just pass the patient information as necessary, so that's what I've done now.
4. I've written conversion functions when a patient is created. To make them as generic as possible, they receive a bundle for patient, Immunization, ImmunizationRecommendation and conditions. These are all FHIR resources. In later versions, I'm going to try and include stu3 and dstu2 translators as well.
5. The benefit of using the data model created by the CDC is at least two-fold. The first is that I don't have to maintain it. The second is that anyone else can input their vaccine schedule, as long as it's in the same format, and the logic still works.
6. I am going to be working on creating a vaccine schedule in the same format as the CDC but using the WHO recommendations. So if anyone is interested in helping me create these, let me know.